---
nav:
  title: v6.6.10.4
meta:
  date: "2025-04-11"
---

# Release notes Shopware 6.6.10.4

## Improvements

### Possibility to create private or internal custom fields

We introduce a new value for the custom_field entity, which will allow a developer/shop owner to exclude a custom field from the API. This is useful for custom fields that are only used internally and should not be exposed to the API.

### confirmation modal to save changes in the order administration

When managing an order and make changes (such as adding a tracking code) and update the order's status without saving, a confirmation pop-up will now ask if you'd like to save your changes first. This ensures that your updates are applied correctly before moving forward, preventing issues with outdated information being used.

### Orders edited in Admin now use the correct customer address for recalculation

When editing customer addresses for orders, the system chose the customer's default instead of the one the order was placed with. This has now been resolved, ensuring that the system always uses the correct customer address during order recalculations.

### Improved Card Component Identification in Order Details

The card component in the order details page has been improved to ensure that it is correctly identified. This enhancement is particularly beneficial for third-party developers who rely on accurate identification of components for their integrations and customizations.

### Improved Email Previews for order data

Email previews now use real order data instead of sample data when displaying order information. For shop owners, this means you will see accurate, live order details in email previews, making it easier to verify the content before sending emails to customers.

### New Possibilities for Extension Developers: Configurable Response Headers

This feature allows developers to modify response headers through app scripts to e.g. change CSP or XFramOptions headers.

### Enhanced Search Widget Accessibility for Better User Experience

The search widget in the storefront has been improved to be more accessible. This includes better keyboard navigation and screen reader support, ensuring that all users can easily interact with the search functionality.

### Improved promotion management for orders

Since the introduction of the ability to edit promotions after an order has been placed, promotions are always re-evaluated when an order is recalculated (e.g. by edit a line item). Now, when a recalculation is triggered, a modal shows all changes resulting from the recalculation. You can decide whether these changes should be adopted or not.