---
nav:
  title: v6.6.6.0
meta:
  date: "2024-09-03"
---

# Release notes Shopware 6.6.6.0

## Abstract

This patch release contains 

## System requirements

* tested on PHP 8.1, 8.2 and 8.3
* tested on MySQL 8.0.33, MariaDB 10.4. 10.5, 10.11 & 11.0

## Improvements

### More strict aggregation name validation

Aggregation names are now restricted to not contain question marks or colons to prevent unprivileged sql injections.

### More strict context objects

From now on methods from `Context` objects only accept closures as callbacks, instead of `callables`.

### Screenreader improvements for product listing and listing filters

With this version, we added new include parameters to our listing and filter components in the storefront. These suppose to improve acessibility when using screen readers. For example, we added the `ariaLabel` parameter to all of our filter components which can be used to add a descritpion of the purpose of this filter for screen readers.

### Screenreader improvements for slider elements

In this version, we added new behaviour and styling to slider and gallery elements in the storefront. These changes include:

* Hiding cloned elements for screen readers
* Keeping the focused element always in view to enable navigation of the slider via tab
* Prevent the native scrolling to focused elements of the browser inside the slider to use the slider function instead

### Improved many-to-many association of entities via attributes

With these changes, entities created by attributes now support many-to-many associations with version aware entities.

Thanks to [Nicky Gerritsen](https://github.com/nickygerritsen) for this improvement!

### Added support for state machine fields

State machine state fields can now be created via attributes in your entity definitions. The attribute is taking an `machine` and `scopes` as well as the well known `api` and `column` arguments.

Thanks to [Simone Alers](https://github.com/dorxy) for this improvement!

### States / provinces are now available in flows with order data

States or provinces can now be used in Flow Builder to set rules, for example when shipping to these destinations.

### Improved CSV parsing for Quick Orders

We added support for different delimiters in CSV files you can pass in the Quick Order module. Supported delimiters next to `,` are now `;` and `|`

### Support feature flag extension in plugins

We added the possibility to enable the major feature flag in your tests using our PHPUnit extension. With this, you can run your tests with the major feature flag enabled. This can be usefull to find deprecations in your code. To enable the PHPUnit extension add it to your `phpunit.xml`:

```xml
<extensions>
    ...
    <bootstrap class="Shopware\Core\Test\PHPUnit\Extension\FeatureFlag\FeatureFlagExtension"/>
</extensions>
```

and register your test namespace in your test bootstrap file:

```php
FeatureFlagExtension::addTestNamespace('Your\\Unit\\Tests\\Namespace\\');
```

For more details see this [ADR](https://github.com/shopware/shopware/blob/trunk/adr/2024-07-31-add-more-unit-tests-namespaces-to-featureflag-extension.md)

### Added telemetry abstraction layer

By implementing a telemetry abstraction layer, we provide a unified way to integrate monitoring tools into the Shopware platform. This approach simplifies the process of adding telemetry to the application and ensures consistency across different monitoring tools.

For more information, see this [ADR](https://github.com/shopware/shopware/blob/trunk/adr/2024-07-30-add-telemetry-abstraction-layer.md) and the [README.md](https://github.com/shopware/shopware/blob/trunk/src/Core/Framework/Telemetry/README.md) of our new Telemetry namespace

### Added system health checks

By implementing system health checks, we ensure that the system is monitored and that issues are detected early. This will help to prevent system failures and improve the overall stability of the system.
Moreover, it helps detecting issues at the time of deployment and helps to prevent issues from reaching the end-users.

For more information about our new Health Check Framework see this [ADR](https://github.com/shopware/shopware/blob/trunk/adr/2024-08-02-system-health-check.md)

### Minor accessibility improvements for the storefront

We've enhanced the registration form, and improved text scalability to ensure everyone can navigate and enjoy our platform with ease.

### Restrict the message queue size

* Added `Shopware\Core\Framework\MessageQueue\Subscriber\MessageQueueSizeRestrictListener` to limit the message queue message size to 256KB. It only creates a log entry if a message is bigger than 256KB.
* Deprecated message queue message size. Messages bigger than 256KB will throw an exception with Shopware 6.7

### New `DomAccessHelper` methods to find focusable elements

The `DomAccessHelper` now supports new methods to find DOM elements that can have keyboard focus.
Optionally, an element can be provided as a parameter to only search within this given element. By default, the document body will be used.

### Deprecate cached*route layer and use new http cache tag event for tagging

Nesting cached routes leads to complex caching, which results in complex invalidations. Additionally, the cache has become very large and should be cached more at the HTTP level.

Collecting cache tags through cache decorators is a hassle. From now on, there's an event that anyone can freely dispatch to attach a tag to the current request. This also allows us to remove those nasty cache tracers.

### Cache hash improvement

We optimized the process of determining the cache hash so that an event is dispatched where elements can be better removed in projects.

You can now also configure cookies to be included in the hash. This allows you to easily handle just one cookie (on/off) to permute the cache.

## Fixed bugs

## Credits

Thanks to all diligent friends for helping us make Shopware better and better with each pull request!

* [Nicky Gerritsen](https://github.com/nickygerritsen)
* [Simone Alers](https://github.com/dorxy)

## More resources

* [Detailed diff on Github](https://github.com/shopware/shopware/compare/v6.6.5.1...v6.6.6.0) to the former version
* [Changelog on GitHub](https://github.com/shopware/shopware/blob/v6.6.6.0/CHANGELOG.md) for this version.
* [Installation overview](https://developer.shopware.com/docs/guides/installation/)
* [Update from a previous installation](https://developer.shopware.com/docs/guides/installation/template.html#update-shopware)

## Get in touch

Discuss about decisions, bugs you might stumble upon, etc in our [community slack](https://shopwarecommunity.slack.com/). See you there ;)