---
nav:
  title: v6.6.9.0
meta:
  date: 2024-11-08
---

# Release notes Shopware 6.6.9.0

## Abstract

This minor release contains some interesting features as well as technical improvements like Accessibility improvements and OpenTelemetry enhancements.

## System requirements

* tested on PHP 8.2 and 8.3
* tested on MySQL 8 and MariaDB 10.11

## Improvements

### Improve category and product indexing for many entities at once

Before the CategoryIndexer, every child of the to-be-updated categories was put into one indexing message.
This single message could stay within the message size limit if there are fewer categories.
The children and parents are now chunked and put into new messages.

### Fill the last_usage_at column in the integration table during the authentication process between the App/Service and the Shop.

The last_usage_at date is now filled when an integration is used.

### Public metrics configuration interfaces

Changed parts of the future public interface (metrics emitting view and metrics transport view) from @internal to @experimental

### Add global exports to Shopware object

Added all Vue exports to `Shopware.Vue`

### Hot Reload: Support for Multiple Themes (SCSS Variables)

Improved support for multiple themes by skipping unselected themes during Hot Reload

### Custom Field Integration in Layouts

Merchants can now use custom field data in layouts. Updates to custom fields automatically reflect across all layouts, reducing manual updates. This includes:
 * Selecting entities in data mapping.
 * Using custom field data as variables in text fields and entire blocks.

### Elasticsearch Search Explanation

Added the ability to view search explanations in the browser's network tab when using the preview search API, integrated with the Preview search UI.

### Exclude products from sitemap

Added the option to exclude hidden products from the sitemap.

## Fixed bugs

## Credits

Thanks to all diligent friends for helping us make Shopware better and better with each pull request!

## More resources

* [Detailed diff on Github](https://github.com/shopware/shopware/compare/v6.6.8.1...v6.6.9.0) to the former version
* [Changelog on GitHub](https://github.com/shopware/shopware/blob/v6.6.9.0/CHANGELOG.md) for this version.
* [Installation overview](https://developer.shopware.com/docs/guides/installation/)
* [Update from a previous installation](https://developer.shopware.com/docs/guides/installation/template.html#update-shopware)

## Get in touch

Discuss about decisions, bugs you might stumble upon, etc in our [community slack](https://shopwarecommunity.slack.com/). See you there ;)