---
nav:
  title: v6.5.8.0
meta:
  date: "2024-01-16"
---

# Release notes Shopware 6.5.8.0

## Abstract



## System requirements

* tested on PHP 8.1 and 8.2
* tested on MySQL 8.0.33, MariaDB 10.4. 10.5, 10.11 & 11.0

## Improvements

### Spatial Commerce (3D/AR Model Viewer)

It is now possible to upload 3D Model files as product picture and they are visible in a 3D Model Viewer or as Augmented Reality in the Product Detail Page.

### Performance Improvments

- Symfony Inline class loader is now disabled by default and generates smaller PHP Container in cache.
- Shopware Storefront NPM packages can be now installed with `npm install --production` to install only build relevant tools
- Improved SQL search config performance in order module. Searching in 30k orders
- Optimized the variant listing in Administration to do less API calls
- Added new enviroment variable `SHOPWARE_ADMIN_SKIP_SOURCEMAP_GENERATION` to skip source map generation while building the Administration to build faster

### PHP 8.3 support

Shopware 6.5.8.0 is fully PHP 8.3 compatible. 

### Dependency Updates

We updated the dependencies of the Storefront to the newest version, also we upgraded Symfony from `6.3` to `6.4`. The Symfony `7.0` upgrade is planned for Shopware 6.6.

### 404 Page Language handling

The 404 page, does now consider again the user's language when the 404 page is cached.

### Admin Request Tracing

All API calls from the Administration now add a header `shopware-admin-active-route` to be able to trace API errors occures back to single Administration modules.

### Elasticsearch/OpenSearch scripts are not stored anymore inside the Server

To simplify the OpenSearch/Elasticsearch upgrades, we don't store scripts anymore inside the server. Shopware now sends the scripts with the search queries.

### Preparations for Shopware 6.6

We deprecated the old Shopware Kernel Wrapper (`Shopware\Core\HttpKernel`) and implemented the new improved Shopware Kernel for Edge Side Includes behind new `KernelFactory` factory. If you depend on the Kernel Wrapper besides `public/index.php`, `bin/console` and `bin/ci`, make sure to update your Code to the new `KernelFactory`. The changes to the files above mentioned will be automatically done with Symfony Flex when you are upgrading to Shopware 6.6 later.


### And many more things

- Webhooks are not triggered anymore for inactive apps
- The Symfony annotation cache is now explictly cleared to fix bugs after Plugin updates
- Shopware Redis Decorator bug has been fixed when the RedisTagAware adapter was used
- Belgian VAT ID validation is now fixed
- Improved webhook error handling when the response is not a json object
- The `ScoreQuery` is now correctly serialized and so recognized by the caching system

## Fixed bugs

* [NEXT-29293](https://issues.shopware.com/issues/NEXT-29293) | Failed to load resource Inter-roman.latin.var.woff2 (15 votes)

## Credits

Thanks to all diligent friends for helping us make Shopware better and better with each pull request!

* [AubreyHewes](https://github.com/AubreyHewes)

## More resources

* [Detailed diff on Github](https://github.com/shopware/shopware/compare/v6.5.7.3...v6.5.8.0) to the former version
* [Changelog on GitHub](https://github.com/shopware/shopware/blob/v6.5.8.0/CHANGELOG.md) for this version.
* [Marketing blog post](https://www.shopware.com/en/news/shopware-6-release-news-january-2024/)
* [Installation overview](https://developer.shopware.com/docs/guides/installation/)
* [Update from a previous installation](https://developer.shopware.com/docs/guides/installation/template.html#update-shopware)

## Get in touch

Discuss about decisions, bugs you might stumble upon, etc in our [community slack](https://slack.shopware.com). See you there ;)
